README.md, before:

#### CS 441 Project 2 Part 1 ####

__Authors__

Ryan Gittins and Phillip Sime

2013-10-14

__Summary__

This software implements a solution to the bounded-buffer problem.  It uses semaphores to ensure that multiple threads do not access the same pieces of data concurrently.  It is called from the command line and provided with the time to run, number of producer threads, number of consumer threads, and an optional buffer size.  When the program executes it begins by creating producer and consumer threads which will begin interacting with the buffer.  A producer will select a random number between 0-9 and then place that number into the buffer in the next open position.  A consumer will consume the next item in the buffer.  Both the producer and the consumer ensure they do not interfere with each other by utilizing semaphores. 

__Build__

To build this software, simply navigate to the directory containing the Makefile and all other included files on a unix-based machine or virtual machine. Type the command `make` into the terminal to trigger the build. This will cause the gcc build commands listed in the Makefile to execute, compiling the source code into an executable file.

__Usage__

To use this software, simply run the command `./bounded-buffer <time-to-live> <producers> <consumers> [buffer-size]`  Where items in `<>` are required and items in `[]` are optional.  The first argument is the length, in seconds, you wish the program to run for.  The second argument is the number of producer threads you wish the program to create and use.  The third argument is the number of consumer threads you wish the program to create and use.  The final argument, which is optional, is the size of the buffer.

__Test Cases__

__Examples__

This example runs the program with `./bounded-buffer 2 4 6` to show how the program will execute using the default buffer size. 
````
shell$ ./bounded-buffer 2 4 6
Buffer Size               :  10
Time To Live (seconds)    :   2
Number of Producer threads:   4
Number of Consumer threads:   6
-------------------------------
Initial Buffer:               [  -1^v  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Producer    1: Produced 8     [   8v  -1^  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Producer    3: Produced 6     [   8v   6  -1^  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Consumer    3: Consumed 8     [  -1   6v  -1^  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Consumer    0: Consumed 6     [  -1  -1  -1^v  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Producer    0: Produced 3     [  -1  -1   3v  -1^  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Consumer    2: Consumed 3     [  -1  -1  -1  -1^v  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Producer    1: Produced 2     [  -1  -1  -1   2v  -1^  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Consumer    4: Consumed 2     [  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1^v  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Producer    0: Produced 0     [  -1  -1  -1  -1   0v  -1^  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Consumer    0: Consumed 0     [  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1^v  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Producer    2: Produced 9     [  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1   9v  -1^  -1  -1  -1 ]
Consumer    1: Consumed 9     [  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1^v  -1  -1  -1 ]
Producer    1: Produced 5     [  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1   5v  -1^  -1  -1 ]
Consumer    3: Consumed 5     [  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1^v  -1  -1 ]
Producer    3: Produced 6     [  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1   6v  -1^  -1 ]
Consumer    5: Consumed 6     [  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1^v  -1 ]
Producer    1: Produced 9     [  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1   9v  -1^ ]
Consumer    2: Consumed 9     [  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1^v ]
Producer    0: Produced 4     [  -1^  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1   4v ]
Consumer    4: Consumed 4     [  -1^v  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Producer    2: Produced 0     [   0v  -1^  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Producer    0: Produced 5     [   0v   5  -1^  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Consumer    5: Consumed 0     [  -1   5v  -1^  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Consumer    0: Consumed 5     [  -1  -1  -1^v  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Producer    1: Produced 2     [  -1  -1   2v  -1^  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Consumer    1: Consumed 2     [  -1  -1  -1  -1^v  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Producer    1: Produced 8     [  -1  -1  -1   8v  -1^  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Consumer    0: Consumed 8     [  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1^v  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Producer    3: Produced 0     [  -1  -1  -1  -1   0v  -1^  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Consumer    3: Consumed 0     [  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1^v  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Producer    2: Produced 1     [  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1   1v  -1^  -1  -1  -1 ]
Consumer    5: Consumed 1     [  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1^v  -1  -1  -1 ]
````

This example runs the program with `./bounded-buffer 2 3 3 5` to show how the program will execute when providing a buffer size. 
````
shell$ ./bounded-buffer 2 3 3 5
Buffer Size               :   5
Time To Live (seconds)    :   2
Number of Producer threads:   3
Number of Consumer threads:   3
-------------------------------
Initial Buffer:               [  -1^v  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Producer    0: Produced 0     [   0v  -1^  -1  -1  -1 ]
Consumer    1: Consumed 0     [  -1  -1^v  -1  -1  -1 ]
Producer    0: Produced 2     [  -1   2v  -1^  -1  -1 ]
Producer    1: Produced 2     [  -1   2v   2  -1^  -1 ]
Producer    1: Produced 0     [  -1   2v   2   0  -1^ ]
Consumer    2: Consumed 2     [  -1  -1   2v   0  -1^ ]
Consumer    0: Consumed 2     [  -1  -1  -1   0v  -1^ ]
Producer    2: Produced 9     [  -1^  -1  -1   0v   9 ]
Producer    0: Produced 6     [   6  -1^  -1   0v   9 ]
Consumer    1: Consumed 0     [   6  -1^  -1  -1   9v ]
Consumer    1: Consumed 9     [   6v  -1^  -1  -1  -1 ]
Consumer    2: Consumed 6     [  -1  -1^v  -1  -1  -1 ]
Producer    2: Produced 2     [  -1   2v  -1^  -1  -1 ]
Producer    1: Produced 7     [  -1   2v   7  -1^  -1 ]
Producer    1: Produced 9     [  -1   2v   7   9  -1^ ]
Consumer    0: Consumed 2     [  -1  -1   7v   9  -1^ ]
Producer    0: Produced 8     [  -1^  -1   7v   9   8 ]
Producer    1: Produced 6     [   6  -1^   7v   9   8 ]
Consumer    1: Consumed 7     [   6  -1^  -1   9v   8 ]
Consumer    2: Consumed 9     [   6  -1^  -1  -1   8v ]
````

__Question Answers__

Part 2

__Known Bugs and Problem Areas__
* No bugs or problem areas are known at this time.

Commit message:

Added test cases to the readme

README.md, after:

#### CS 441 Project 2 Part 1 ####

__Authors__

Ryan Gittins and Phillip Sime

2013-10-14

__Summary__

This software implements a solution to the bounded-buffer problem.  It uses semaphores to ensure that multiple threads do not access the same pieces of data concurrently.  It is called from the command line and provided with the time to run, number of producer threads, number of consumer threads, and an optional buffer size.  When the program executes it begins by creating producer and consumer threads which will begin interacting with the buffer.  A producer will select a random number between 0-9 and then place that number into the buffer in the next open position.  A consumer will consume the next item in the buffer.  Both the producer and the consumer ensure they do not interfere with each other by utilizing semaphores. 

__Build__

To build this software, simply navigate to the directory containing the Makefile and all other included files on a unix-based machine or virtual machine. Type the command `make` into the terminal to trigger the build. This will cause the gcc build commands listed in the Makefile to execute, compiling the source code into an executable file.

__Usage__

To use this software, simply run the command `./bounded-buffer [TTL] [# P Threads] [# C Threads] (Buffer Size)`  Where items in brackets are required and items in parentheses are optional.  The first argument is the length, in seconds, you wish the program to run for.  The second argument is the number of producer threads you wish the program to create and use.  The third argument is the number of consumer threads you wish the program to create and use.  The final argument, which is optional, is the size of the buffer.

__Test Cases__

`shell$ ./bounded-buffer 2 4 6`  The output of this test is shown in the Examples section below.  Its purpose is to demonstrate that the last parameter is optional.

`shell$ ./bounded-buffer 1 5`  This test will display usage information and inform the user that they have not supplied enough arguments, and then terminate.

`shell$ ./bounded-buffer 1 2 3 4 5 6`  This test will display usage information and inform the user that they have supplied too many arguments, and then terminate.

`shell$ ./bounded-buffer 1 -2 3 4`  This test demonstrates the proper handling of arguments which are too small.

`shell$ ./bounded-buffer 1 2 3 50`  This test demonstrates the proper handling of arguments which are too large.

`shell$ ./bounded-buffer 2 2 1 4`  This test is an example of correct input and normal execution of the program.

__Examples__

This example runs the program with `./bounded-buffer 2 4 6` to show how the program will execute using the default buffer size. 
````
shell$ ./bounded-buffer 2 4 6
Buffer Size               :  10
Time To Live (seconds)    :   2
Number of Producer threads:   4
Number of Consumer threads:   6
-------------------------------
Initial Buffer:               [  -1^v  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Producer    1: Produced 8     [   8v  -1^  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Producer    3: Produced 6     [   8v   6  -1^  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Consumer    3: Consumed 8     [  -1   6v  -1^  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Consumer    0: Consumed 6     [  -1  -1  -1^v  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Producer    0: Produced 3     [  -1  -1   3v  -1^  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Consumer    2: Consumed 3     [  -1  -1  -1  -1^v  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Producer    1: Produced 2     [  -1  -1  -1   2v  -1^  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Consumer    4: Consumed 2     [  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1^v  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Producer    0: Produced 0     [  -1  -1  -1  -1   0v  -1^  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Consumer    0: Consumed 0     [  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1^v  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Producer    2: Produced 9     [  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1   9v  -1^  -1  -1  -1 ]
Consumer    1: Consumed 9     [  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1^v  -1  -1  -1 ]
Producer    1: Produced 5     [  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1   5v  -1^  -1  -1 ]
Consumer    3: Consumed 5     [  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1^v  -1  -1 ]
Producer    3: Produced 6     [  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1   6v  -1^  -1 ]
Consumer    5: Consumed 6     [  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1^v  -1 ]
Producer    1: Produced 9     [  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1   9v  -1^ ]
Consumer    2: Consumed 9     [  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1^v ]
Producer    0: Produced 4     [  -1^  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1   4v ]
Consumer    4: Consumed 4     [  -1^v  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Producer    2: Produced 0     [   0v  -1^  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Producer    0: Produced 5     [   0v   5  -1^  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Consumer    5: Consumed 0     [  -1   5v  -1^  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Consumer    0: Consumed 5     [  -1  -1  -1^v  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Producer    1: Produced 2     [  -1  -1   2v  -1^  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Consumer    1: Consumed 2     [  -1  -1  -1  -1^v  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Producer    1: Produced 8     [  -1  -1  -1   8v  -1^  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Consumer    0: Consumed 8     [  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1^v  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Producer    3: Produced 0     [  -1  -1  -1  -1   0v  -1^  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Consumer    3: Consumed 0     [  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1^v  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Producer    2: Produced 1     [  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1   1v  -1^  -1  -1  -1 ]
Consumer    5: Consumed 1     [  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1  -1^v  -1  -1  -1 ]
````

This example runs the program with `./bounded-buffer 2 3 3 5` to show how the program will execute when providing a buffer size. 
````
shell$ ./bounded-buffer 2 3 3 5
Buffer Size               :   5
Time To Live (seconds)    :   2
Number of Producer threads:   3
Number of Consumer threads:   3
-------------------------------
Initial Buffer:               [  -1^v  -1  -1  -1  -1 ]
Producer    0: Produced 0     [   0v  -1^  -1  -1  -1 ]
Consumer    1: Consumed 0     [  -1  -1^v  -1  -1  -1 ]
Producer    0: Produced 2     [  -1   2v  -1^  -1  -1 ]
Producer    1: Produced 2     [  -1   2v   2  -1^  -1 ]
Producer    1: Produced 0     [  -1   2v   2   0  -1^ ]
Consumer    2: Consumed 2     [  -1  -1   2v   0  -1^ ]
Consumer    0: Consumed 2     [  -1  -1  -1   0v  -1^ ]
Producer    2: Produced 9     [  -1^  -1  -1   0v   9 ]
Producer    0: Produced 6     [   6  -1^  -1   0v   9 ]
Consumer    1: Consumed 0     [   6  -1^  -1  -1   9v ]
Consumer    1: Consumed 9     [   6v  -1^  -1  -1  -1 ]
Consumer    2: Consumed 6     [  -1  -1^v  -1  -1  -1 ]
Producer    2: Produced 2     [  -1   2v  -1^  -1  -1 ]
Producer    1: Produced 7     [  -1   2v   7  -1^  -1 ]
Producer    1: Produced 9     [  -1   2v   7   9  -1^ ]
Consumer    0: Consumed 2     [  -1  -1   7v   9  -1^ ]
Producer    0: Produced 8     [  -1^  -1   7v   9   8 ]
Producer    1: Produced 6     [   6  -1^   7v   9   8 ]
Consumer    1: Consumed 7     [   6  -1^  -1   9v   8 ]
Consumer    2: Consumed 9     [   6  -1^  -1  -1   8v ]
````

__Question Answers__

Part 2

__Known Bugs and Problem Areas__
* No bugs or problem areas are known at this time.
